Enter BERTRAM, the COUNTESS of Rousillon, HELENA, and LAFEU, all in black
In delivering my son from me, I bury a second husband.
anew: but I must attend his majesty's command, to
You shall find of the king a husband, madam; you,
He hath abandoned his physicians, madam; under whose
practises he hath persecuted time with hope, and
far, would have made nature immortal, and death
He was famous, sir, in his profession, and it was
lately spoke of him admiringly and mourningly: he
His sole child, my lord, and bequeathed to my
commendations go with pity; they are virtues and
simpleness; she derives her honesty and achieves her goodness.
How understand we that?
Be thou blest, Bertram, and succeed thy father
In manners, as in shape! thy blood and virtue
Contend for empire in thee, and thy goodness
Rather in power than use, and keep thy friend
That thee may furnish and my prayers pluck down,
to my mother, your mistress, and make much of her.
Exeunt BERTRAM and LAFEU
In his bright radiance and collateral light
To see him every hour; to sit and draw
Of every line and trick of his sweet favour:
But now he's gone, and my idolatrous fancy
But he assails; and our virginity, though valiant,
undermine you and blow you up.
Bless our poor virginity from underminers and
increase and there was never virgin got till
I will stand for 't a little, though therefore I die a virgin.
virginity murders itself and should be buried in
paring, and so dies with feeding his own stomach.
itself ten, which is a goodly increase; and the
like the brooch and the tooth-pick, which wear not
now. Your date is better in your pie and your
porridge than in your cheek; and your virginity,
There shall your master have a thousand loves,
A mother and a mistress and a friend,
A phoenix, captain and an enemy,
A guide, a goddess, and a sovereign,
A counsellor, a traitress, and a dear;
His jarring concord, and his discord dulcet,
The court's a learning place, and he is one--
but the composition that your valour and fear makes
in you is a virtue of a good wing, and I like the wear well.
counsel and understand what advice shall thrust upon
thee; else thou diest in thine unthankfulness, and
none, remember thy friends; get thee a good husband,
and use him as he uses thee; so, farewell.
That makes me see, and cannot feed mine eye?
To join like likes and kiss like native things.
That weigh their pains in sense and do suppose
But my intents are fix'd and will not leave me.
